# Dragons Den Presentation Feedback
In this document the feedback I received during the practice pitch (where I pitched alone) and the Dragons Den feedback (where I presented togheter with Loes) can be found. I can use this feedback to make better presentations and make sure to put more relevent information in my presentations. 

## Practice Pitch
- Don't apply to all requests, you can always prepare an answer for it (visual even like preparing a slide in advance)
- Don't talk about problems
- Each bullet point should be its own slide
- Put yourself into the shoes of a Dragon. They are here to invest in this game, and have never heard of it before.
- make story personal and connect it to gameplay
- Story text and trailer aimed a bit too much towards the players while the dragons aren't neccesarily players
- Story text was too long
- 1 screenshot per page
- You can give away spoilers
- Sign language with possibility for spells is exciting
- Don't say solve puzzles but the goal behind it (progressing through the dungeon)
- Focus more on the topic of spellcasting first in the presentation
- Mention locomotion
- PUT THIS IN EVIDENCE
- Give at least a bit of context before trailer
- Mention motion sickness prevention

## Dragons Den Feedback
- Trailer died
- Felt more like study in interface, really cool 
- Decision movement hands are game 
- At the moment just a complex way to select a spell
- People get lazy and want to do things quickly and easily
- Just the same thing
- Good hand poses and dexterity or not
- How do you scale/ become an expert? More feeling?
- Unclear what the goal is
- Done a lot of times and just selling point is hand tracking
- Need to understand what you're trying to create!
- Play because love unraveling this or powering and attacking/ feeling powerful
- In right jackets its amazing cuz everyone likes to feel like a wizard
- With the image environment that's exciting 
- Environment could be cooler
- If everything’s cool then u can make something out of it
- Missing link. Looks pretty polished and potential
- Different jacket
- Missing link reactability environment and player 
- Time pressure and reactivity. React to fire with water for example
- Run the risk of player repeating gestures every time
- Needs to be a back and forth
- Impressive what's here

- Dragons decision
  - Dragon 1:
    - Still missing link after the trailer, but very polished and well executed. Good job for small scope. Impressive first release
    - yay
  - Dragon 2:
    - Agreed with previous. Not a great meal. Good snack tho
    - Assets don't fit the real coolness of casting spells
    - Yay
  - Dragon 3:
    - Don't think being a wizard is enough, if you lean too much into x too hard to create something. At this stage
    - Nay
  - Dragon 4:
    - Get your core reason for the ideal customer. Why they want to play the game
    - Hard to explain
    - Yay (if you keep the core and make you feel like an expert)
- Result:
  - 3x YAY 1x NAY
