# How can 2D dynamic gestures be recognised?
My second solution was to use a package I saw a group use in my game design advanced semester, this package was able to recognise simple shapes the player drew. 
This solution would mean I could recognise a gesture on the x and y axis, but not on the z axis, since the package can only recognise 2D shapes and was not originally meant for VR.

## How did I solve this?
After installing the [P Dollar package](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/input-management/pdollar-point-cloud-gesture-recognizer-21660), I looked at the demo code and found the first problem, this code makes use of the legacy input system.
Unity 6 (which is what I use) throws errors when I try to test this script. I tried to convet it to the new input system, but for some reason the code doesn't work when I do this. Luckily I don't use controllers 
and thus don't need any of unity's input systems, I took the code that is used for drawing and implemented this in my own script, which activates it on a static gesture being recognised (in this case the fist gesture for the left hand). 
I also needed a way to clear my drawing so I also copied that over and this is activated on the fist gesture with the right hand.

|First steps|
|-|
|<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f405ec6-dd43-47b2-8f41-ca5622cb9626" width="1024px" height="1024px"/>|

After this I just needed to use the recogniser class, which has a method to recognise the current drawing. It doesn't work perfect, possibly due to the drawing exiting in 3D space, which this system is not made for.

|Drawing recognition|
|-|
|<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c2aafafb-97c3-42ab-8365-ef35d248317d" width="1024px" height="1024px"/>|

Now the last step will be to implement this into the Secrets of Ignacios spell casting system as a replacement for the current gestures (it will not be replaced in the actual game).

## What is the result?
After implementing it in the Secrets of Ignacios system, I was able to cast spells like usual, but with a different gesture system. This required minimal changes to the current system, since I made sure it was expandable.
I also added some hand vfx, done by changing the hand material to the vfx Rick has made, since I thought it looked cool.
|Result|
|-|
|Video finished product|

## What is the quality of the result?
I have faked a way to detect dynamic gestures, by making the player draw a symbol, which requires dynamic movement. Since these symbols can be drawn in multiple different ways, I cannot exactly check if the player
does the exact movement I want them to, another problem is the algorithm itself. If it considers symbols to be too similar, it can choose the wrong spell, this is possibly due to the 3D aspect in which I use it.
Other than those issues, this solution works pretty well, but will not replace the current System in Secrets of Ignacios, since it is too unstable.

## What is the next step now that I have this result?
I am done with this project and will not continue to work on it.
