# How can a spell casting system be created that makes use of hand gestures?
I wanted to work with the hand tracking functionality of a VR headset during this one week project. With this functionality I wanted to create a way to cast spells with Hand gestures.
To achieve this a spell casting system that makes use of hand gesture recognition needs to be created.

## How did I solve this?
I first set my requirements, which were:  
- A custom hand gesture needs to be recognise (for spells and casting)
- The gesture needs to be translated to a spell (play correct vfx in the players hand)
- When the cast gesture is recognised the spell needs to be fired

After this I looked into hand tracking and gesture recognition packages for unity. This research can be found [here](1.%20Research/1.%20Gesture%20Package.md).

I ended up choosing the [XR Hands packages](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.hands@1.5/manual/index.html), since it seemed easy to set up custom gestures with it and execute my functionalities when the gesture is recognised.

|  |Method|
|:-|:----:|
|Library|Literature study, Available product analysis|

## What is the result?
I was able to create my own gesture, which was a finger gun, after understanding how the hand shape and pose assets worked. I used the unity events on the static hand gesture script to make the functionality of
my spell activating. After this worked I created a casting gesture to fire my spell.

||
|:-:|

|  |Method|
|:-|:----:|
|Workshop|Prototyping|

## What is the quality of the result?
The system meets all the requirements I set, but because of the short time period the code is bad and not expandable.
There were no tests for this project so it isn't validated by anyone other than me and my group member.

## What is the next step now that I have this result?
During this week I came up with the idea to create an escape room type of game, where you would have to cast spells using the gesture system (an improved version of this project).
I told this in front of the class when everyone was choosing their industry projects and I ended up peaking enough people's interest to create this game as my industry project.
