# How can the UX for aiming spells be improved?
Spells are currently almost impossible to aim, to solve this problem the player needs something to either show or let them know where the spell will go.

## How did I solve this?
I looked for existing solutions in other games, most spell casting vr games use controllers, these make it a lot easier to aim, but since Secrets of Ignacios uses hand tracking, this is not an option. The closest thing to our system I could find was [Drakheir VR](https://www.meta.com/nl-nl/experiences/drakheir/6206340942808771/). There is one spell the player casts with one hand, I believe they use fingers to aim the spell, which is easier to use for a player than their palm, since they only need to point at the thing they want to shoot at. There are also spells that can be cast with 2 hands; these spells, from what I could see, take the players rotation as well as hand height into account to be aimed. These are both solutions that won’t work in my case, so I had to think of my own solution.

I came up with the idea to create indicators to show where the player is aiming. This idea was inspired by laser sights/pointers, these things give a clear indication of where someone is aiming without the need to make an auto aim feature, which would take a lot of skill out of  the game or change our casting system/gestures.

The system would work like this:
- The player performs the spell sequence
- The player can make a claw with their hands to enable the indicator (this idea came from watching a teacher try to aim the spells when they didn’t have any indicators yet)
- Transition to the cast gesture to shoot the spell  

Requirements would be:
- The indicator should resize if it is intersected by another object or should get longer as long as it is not colliding with anything
- It should only activate if a spell sequence has been performed and a claw is made with the hand
- It should disappear after casting the spell

## What is the result?
I tried creating the indicator with a simple cylinder object and resizing it when needed, this however didn’t work, since when you resize a unity cylinder on the y-axis it grows and shrinks in both directions.
 ||
 |:-:|

 |VR View|Editor View|
 |:-:|:-:|
 |||
