# Group Manifesto

This document serves as a reference point for rules, roles and tasks for all to reference.

## Roles
- Davey: Scrum Monkey, Environmental Monkey
- Loes: Game Design Monkey, Communication Monkey
- Rick: Puzzle/ Level Design Monkey, Art Monkey
- Tim: Code Monkey King (focus on hand tracking)
- Luc: UI/UX Monkey, Code Monkey
- Yori: Code Monkey, Notulist Monkey

## Rules

1. Democracy is the way. All members will vote on a given issue or concept. A minor majority is required to pass.
    1. A member can vote in the following ways: For, Against or Abstain.
    2. A member must Always vote. That way, their voice is heard.
    3. Any member can call a vote, for whatever reason. Unless there is major reason to indicate that it would be detrimental, it is binding.
    4. If it is detrimental to the project, a veto may be called, given adequate reason. Deleting the Git repository would be an (extreme) example.
2. Be on time. Attendance will be tracked by virtue of memory, but frequent absences or tardiness will be addressed. If there is a good reason for absence, let the group know.
3. Use the Project Management System. If you are working on something, it should be on the board. This allows everyone to stay up to date with what needs doing.
4. Be honest about everyones work. Be constructive, but fair.

## Documentation
- Google docs 

## Communication

### Internal
Discord

### Stakeholder
MS Teams

## Daily Tasks
- Be here between 9:00-10:00
- Stand up on site 10:15 - 10:30
- Stand up online 10:00

## Git use

- GitHub
- [Gitflow](https://www.gitkraken.com/learn/git/git-flow)

- Branch names
    - Prefix (feature, bugfix, hotfix, etc.)
    - Prefix/Name: This part of the branch name is separated by a forward slash.
    - Dashes: Used to separate words, replacing spaces.
    - Lower Case: All letters are in lower case.
    - Example: feature/player-movement or bugfix/fix-dash-bug

- PR Rules
    - PR title: 
        - Gitmoji
        - Branch name
    - Fill out the description template
    - Merge title:
        - 🔀 Merge feature/branch-name into develop (pull request #1)

- [GitMoji](https://gitmoji.dev/)
- Commit Titles
    - Gitmoji
    - Prefix (Add, Update, Remove, etc.)
    - Short Description

- Code Review

- Bug or Feature
    - Create Issue
    - Create card
    - Link

## Definition of Done
- Code: 
    - Code follows code convention
    - Approved by at least one member besides the creator
- Design:
    - Backup design choices with analysis
    - Approved by all group members (pitch design)
- Total:
    - Approved by the Product Owner
    - Merge from dev to main has been approved by 2 group members
    - Playtested thoroughly

## Agile
- Scrum
- Delivery Dates | `2 Weeks`
- Sprint start and end on wednesday

## Unity Packages
- XR Hands
    - Gestures
- Open XR
- Oculus XR 
- UniTask 
