# Code Management
To manage my code, I followed the guidelines, as described in the manifesto and code convention, with a focus on clear Git commits and using a structured Gitflow.

### Git Commits
When writing Git commits, I adhered to the guidelines set out in the manifesto to ensure readability for others. My commit messages always start with the 
appropriate gitmoji and prefixes such as Add, Fix, Update, etc. This made it clear to others what the purpose of the commit was. The commit messages also had to be written in English.

||
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

### Git Flow
To structure this project code, I used the Gitflow method. There is a Master branch for production and a Development branch for staging, 
I will create separate branches for individual developments like features or bugfixes. These branches have made it possible for us to develop multiple features at the same time.
When a feature is finished a pull request will need to be opened, before it finally gets added to the game.
The result was a structured and well-managed codebase, in line with the manifesto.

||
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

### Pull Requests
Like mentioned before, when a feature is finished a pull request needs to be created before it can be merged into the develop branch. Rules about how these pull requests should look
have also been established.  

#### Description
First a clear description needs to be written which explains the new feature or bugfix, after the added/updated/deleted files need to be mentioned with their function, 
then a showcase of/a way to test this feature/bugfix needs to be present. Lastly the issue to close (if there is one) needs to be added, this way it automatically closes on the scrum board.

|Example of a PR description|
|:-------------------------:|
||

#### Assignees
After finishing the description you'll need to assign yourself and a reviewer to the PR. You assign yourself so that we can look back at the closed PRs and quickly see who has worked on what branch.
A reviewer needs to be added since you are not allowed to review your own code.


#### Post Review
After a review is done, there are 2 possibilities. Your code has been approved and the branch can be merged or changes are needed before this branch can be merged.
Once your code has been approved a correct merge commit title needs to be written, after this the branch can be deleted.

|Review|Merge Title|
|:----:|:---------:|
|||
