# Agile Work Method
In line with agile principles, we prioritize transparent decision-making through Discord discussions and GitHub Projects management. This document gives an idea of our approach to encourage collaboration, 
task prioritization, and efficient workflow automation.

## Communication
Our team embraces agile methodologies as outlined in our group manifesto, which serves as the foundation for our agreements on communication. We prioritize democratic decision-making, allowing every member 
to speak their thoughts on a matter. Utilizing Discord as our primary communication platform, we make decisions through discussion and voting on issues, ensuring that everyone's input is considered.

To keep track of everyone’s progress, we conduct daily stand-up meetings, enabling quick updates and addressing any potential roadblocks. Additionally, our weekly meetings, such as the scrum of scrums and 
playtests, provide opportunities for collaboration, feedback, and alignment across different groups.

Communication with our stakeholder is done via MS Teams. A group chat has been created with all the group members and the stakeholder. Here dates for meeting can be planned and files can be shared. 
Our github orginazation is public so our scrumboard is easily accessable to the stakeholder. We have assigned a main contact person, who will do most of the communicating between us and the stakeholder.

## Scrumboard
Our group utilizes GitHub Projects as our scrumboard, where we manage our tasks using issues marked with Gitmojis, like in our commit and pull request conventions. 
